Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to look at a bubbling and capture and show you with the differences.
So it's all about the order of events.
So you can have for instance multiple event listeners on the same elements so we can have it on this
one.
And then if it's got another div inside then this one could have an event.
And if it's got another div inside then this one can have an event and the same thing so we can have
multiple divs one inside of another and they can all have a whole set of events.
So let's track this.
So one two three four five and let's save that.
So now when we go and we refresh the page basically we've got a number of divs here one inside and the
other and going all the way up.
So if we add an event listener to them so let's do that now and let's set up a variable so we just call
it D and we're going to get elements document.
And this time we're getting elements by tag name.
So let's try that one.
Let's do a tag name and we're going to get all of the divs and we're going to add an event listener
to every single div..
So now let's do our loop.
So it's for variable x equals zero.
And we're going to loop while X is less than the length and then we're going to increment x.
So this is going to be the same thing that we've done before where we can add multiple event listeners.
And now we can add the event listeners to those elements.
So selecting it by the index value and doing an event listener and I want to add a click listener to
them and then we want to fire off a function in here.
So let's let's set that up and we're going to call that be up for bubbling up.
And right now we'll just set it as true.
So there's also the default is false.
So when we weren't including it before it was actually set it as the default.
And then we'll update it afterwards.
So now let's create a function and b up is our function.
And then within here what I want to do is console log what's actually happening.
So as we as we go through the different elements let's first of all console log out this and go out
and refresh it.
So basically what's happened now is we've added an event handler to all of those elements and we can
see that as we click it.
So we start out at five.
Then we go to four then we go to three then we go to two.
So let's output that content so that inner text that's available within that object go back out and
refresh it again.
So click and we can see that we're outputting all of this content so we're getting that first value
there.
So we're starting out at five.
Then we've got four and five.
So this element and then we've got 3 4 5 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 all the way out.
So we're basically starting here and we're going that way.
So if I update this and if I change it to true the order is actually going to change so let's refresh
and click it in the same spot.
And now we're actually starting at the parent and then we're starting to go to this one.
This one this one this one.
So basically this is the bubble option and you can find out more about it here on W3 dot org.
So basically we've got to capture phase and we've got the bubble phase.
So it all depends on what you're doing.
If you're doing a true or false.
Which direction the bubbling is going to go.
And this is basically how how javascript or how the dorm is going to handle multiple events and how
it's going to organize which events get triggered and in what order they're going to get triggered.
So this is just something to keep in mind.
And most of the time it's not going to be really that necessary that you need to figure out what order
you want them to be represented in.
But if you're dealing with a lot of events on your applications then this does become really relevant
with what you're doing.
So keep that in mind.
And this was just a short lesson to just basically go over what bubbling up does and and the capture
as well.
So the bubble basically gets it from the top and then the catcher gets it from the typical order from
the element and then going into the parent and then the parent and then the parent.